https://www.e2go-project.eu/

About
E2Go is a European funded Marie Sklodowska-Curie Doctoral Network project (specifically an European Industrial Doctorate project) that will hire and train 9 Doctoral Candidates. The project has partners from the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Denmark and Austria. Within E2GO cross-disciplinary, intersectoral and international collaborations between academic groups and industry partners are formed with a clear main objective: cost-reduction of EV fast-charging infrastructure to enable massive deployment for large-scale electrification of mobility.

Introduction of the project

The transport sector is the only sector whose emissions have continued to rise for years. Road traffic is responsible for a staggering 21% of total EU greenhouse gas emissions and is the main cause of air pollution in urban areas. Studies of the IPCC show that to counter climate change we need to accelerate the transition towards zero-emission road traffic. The EU, therefore, has the goal that from 2035 only 100% emission-free cars may be sold. It is clear that the decarbonization of automobility is crucial and even necessary for a sustainable future of Europe, but how do we get there?

A fully charged EV battery has a much lower range of travel compared to a full tank of gasoline. One of the resulting core challenges in fully electric vehicles (EVs) adoption is reducing charging anxiety: the fear that one may not find suitable charging facilities. New regulations announced under ‘Fit for 55’ will require a charging station every 60 km. Charging an EV takes (much) longer than filling up a gas car, even at state-of-the-art fast-charging stations. Fast-charging stations with higher rated power (to allow long-range travel and reduce range anxiety in EV owners) are therefore needed in the future, but the problem is that the deployment of these stations requires high installation costs and high operational costs. This makes the entire service expensive for both charging station operators and EV owners to the extent that it hinders the roll-out of fast-charging stations and EV adoption.

Overview of the research program

The E2GO European Doctoral Network is brought to life to support the roll-out of the necessary fast-charging infrastructure by establishing a research and training community devoted to educating the next generation of Doctoral candidates (DCs) on this topic. Academic activities are aimed at developing new cost-effective solutions for battery buffered fast-charging stations. The training of 9 DCs will lead to an identification of the current knowledge gaps within academic groups and industry partners and how to address them. The developed technologies will be transferred into commercial applications via the industry beneficiaries and partners and the obtained scientific results and expertise will be made widely available such that other research organizations and industries can benefit. The developed technologies will be transferred into commercial applications via the industry beneficiaries and partners and the obtained scientific results and expertise will be made widely available such that other research organizations and industries can benefit.


